At Hebrews 8.1, the Apostle Paul wrote,
now this is the main point of what we are saying.
When we teach, we want our main points to stand out.
Why?
Well, which is easier to listen to,
a rambling discourse that outlines seemingly unrelated facts,
or an organized presentation with main points that relate to the theme.
When we make our main points stand out,
we help our audience to pay attention,
understand, and remember what we say.
So how can you make the main points stand out?
First, decide on the objective of your talk.
Aim to accomplish something.
If you don't know your objective, neither will your audience.
Do you want to inform?
Convince, encourage, motivate, or something else.
For example, let's say that you're discussing the resurrection.
If you're speaking to a grieving family made up of fellow Christians,
your objective may be to give encouragement and comfort.
On the other hand, if you're speaking about the resurrection
to unbelieving relatives who have questioned your beliefs,
your objective might be to convince them.
In each instance, the main points you choose will be different
because the objective is different.
So when preparing, select only main points
that help you achieve your objective
and that you can teach effectively in the allotted time.
Then develop the points in a logical order.
Ask yourself.
What questions or objections might my audience have about this topic?
In what logical order would they raise those questions or objections?
Often, however, we are given an outline to develop
and the main points have already been selected and put in a certain order.
In such a case, analyze the outline to have clearly in mind,
the objective of the talk,
and how the main points will help you to reach that objective.
As you give the talk, you don't want the audience to lose sight of your theme.
So at various times during your discourse,
repeat key words in the theme or use synonyms.
Your audience will remember only a few main points
so don't develop too many.
Even if you're giving a longer talk,
focus on developing a few points well.
As you develop secondary points,
explain their connection to the main point.
Don't add ideas just because they're interesting.
To make your main points stand out,
you might repeat in a sentence or two
each main point before going on to the next,
or you might state the main points in the introduction
and then restate them in the conclusion.
When you finish, the audience should be able to remember the main points.
Let's watch a brother who's in the middle of giving a talk,
see if you can discern the main point he's developing and his theme.
Let's turn to Proverbs 281.
Here, the righteous are compared to a very impressive animal.
The wicked flee when no one pursues them,
but the righteous are as confident as a lion.
You and I can be like a lion.
Imagine that.
Bible writers were familiar with lions
because they were once plentiful in Israel,
although they are now extinct there.
A lion's thunderous roar can be heard for miles.
They can move at a speed of 40 miles per hour.
They are so powerful that a single blow from a lion's paw
is enough to break the neck of a small antelope.
According to insight on the scriptures,
the lion serves as a fitting symbol of courageous justice.
And so Jesus is called the lion that is of the tribe of Judah.
Could you tell from that talk what the theme is?
Is it something about lions?
Jesus, the righteous?
Actually, the theme of this talk is Jehovah makes us bold.
What's the main point that the speaker was trying to develop?
Jehovah is the source of true boldness.
Let's watch the speaker try again.
This time, notice how he emphasizes the theme and main point.
Let's turn to Proverbs 281.
As we read this verse, look for the answer to this question.
What sort of people can be truly confident?
The wicked flee when no one pursues them,
but the righteous are as confident as a lion.
So who can be confident?
The righteous?
And who are the righteous?
Those who have faith in the ransom
and who strive to adhere to Jehovah's requirements?
Here's the point.
Confidence comes not from natural ability, education, or riches.
The source of true boldness is our relationship with Jehovah.
So when we go in the ministry, we don't need to be afraid.
We're doing what Jehovah requires and Jehovah is supporting us.
Remembering this will help us to preach with boldness.
This time, the speaker introduced the scripture in a way that called attention to the main point.
He avoided cluttering his talk with details that didn't support his point.
And to make sure the audience got the main point, he told them,
here's the point.
Then he connected the point to the theme.
Whether from the platform or in the ministry,
our teaching should be simple and clear.
If we group our thoughts under just a few main points that relate to our objective and theme,
our presentation will be easy to follow and hard to forget.